hi I'm Tanya steel of Epicurus comm and
this is around the world in 80 dishes
today we're making crepes from France
with chef Lou Jones from the Culinary
Institute of America
chef are you ready to cook some crepes
up yes all right tell me what we do
first well we've made up a term we now
rested it for one hour to relax the
gluten
it looks very relaxed to me yes and
we're just going to give it a little
stir
because there have been some settling I
can feel it's tighter on the bottom
there because the flour tends to sink to
the bottom the water rises from the milk
so we're just bring it in so remix it
and there it is and it should look like
the consistency of half-and-half I say
them and we've got our pan on a crepe
pan and there are many different sizes
in France and elsewhere are these pans
and they usually number at the top here
this number 16 that's a six-inch we have
our pan on the heat we're just waiting
for it to get up we're going to take a
little bit of this butter and if you
don't have a pastry brush at home just
get some paper towel if you're using
this method and just push it around I
think like so and that puts just right
amount of fat on there you don't want to
you know you want the crepe swimming in
this remember this fat in the batter as
well coming from the cream okay you're
gonna help to stop it sticking and to
tell if it's warm enough how do you is
there some kind of test yeah you could
put your hand over you do want it hot
enough to make it Bob
okay because that is going to give us
the lacy effect that we have on these
see little holes yes that's because we
got our temperature right and our
consistency right I suppose two things
okay so now we can see a little bit of
smoke coming off here that's a good sign
okay take it off you take that off with
a swirl of batter again take about an
ounce into the time so we want to go in
you swirl the pan very quickly then you
don't get one thick
one thin area whatever okay any even
coating and you can see the hole yes and
it seems like it's only about ten
seconds or 20 seconds right we up for
that swirl yeah yeah and you can see the
color coming already on the edge of the
pan almost there now if we look at the
crepe we can see it's starting to brown
up on the side here that's the telltale
sign to lift it up and turn it now you
can't flip these pancakes you can't toss
them it's not like weight like you you
can flip American pancakes right right
right
so our crepe is almost finished now
it'll have a little bit of color on it
and the other side and all we gotta do
is pick it up and flip it out mm-hm
beautiful so now we've made our crepes
now obviously you could eat them just
like that and I would happily but what
would you fill them with in st. and
Brittany what would be a typical thing
would cut even the Breton's used lemon
sugar situation wait and then so just
squeeze your lemon juice on be generous
and sugar sprinkle that on put it into
the fall and then of course there's the
favorite some modern fillings is Nutella
and banana oh my gosh
and in Brittany when they have um since
apples are so ever-present when they
often do Calvados with yes I'm sure they
would do some Calvados some delicious
Calvados glaze or mm-hmm
but they if you move close to the Paris
of course then you're gonna see the
classic crepe Suzette so when you fold a
crop like that saying you fold it in
half and then you just quarter it over
again yep okay well you could do the
other one which is the the long version
this is some
sort of in line if you like and the
Nutella is a little bit cold in the AC
here you actually want it more
room-temperature to spread it it would
certainly be a little livelier if we
weren't in there in this cold room okay
so now you're folding it over like a
tortilla okay beautiful can I try
absolutely oh my gosh okay yeah I'm
gonna try the first of all I've never
had lemon and sugar uh-huh it's a good
mix mm-hmm sweet and sour that is really
delicious because it's very simple and
elegant flavor it's very sprightly yeah
wow that's pretty good that is fantastic
when the crepes are nice and soft and
they are perfection well chef thank you
so much for showing me how to make these
clips from France my pleasure I really
appreciate it